re awareness that a West African noble demanding $1,000 in order to send you millions is a scam, but the underlying logic of these "pay a little, get a lot" 
schemes, also known as 419 fraud, still ensnares a ton of people. In fact, groups of fraudsters in Nigeria continue to make millions off of these classic 
cons. And they haven't just refined the techniques and expanded their targets-they've gained minor celebrity status for doing it.
YOU WOULD THINK that after decades of analyzing and fighting email spam, there'd be a fix by now for the internet's oldest hustle-the Nigerian Prince scam. 
There's generally more awareness that a West African noble demanding $1,000 in order to send you millions is a scam, but the underlying logic of these "pay a little, 
get a lot" schemes, also known as 419 fraud, still ensnares a ton of people. In fact, groups of fraudsters in Nigeria continue to make millions off of these classic 
cons. And they haven't just refined the techniques and expanded their targets-they've gained minor celebrity status for doing it.YOU WOULD THINK that after decades of 
analyzing and fighting email spam, there'd be a fix by now for the internet's oldest hustle-the Nigerian Prince scam. There's generally more awareness that a West 
African noble demanding $1,000 in order to send you millions is a scam, but the underlying logic of these "pay a little, get a lot" schemes, also known as 419 fraud, 
still ensnares a ton of people. In fact, groups of fraudsters in Nigeria continue to make millions off of these classic cons. And they haven't just refined the 
techniques and expanded their targets-they've gained minor celebrity status for doing it.These guys are more like a crew from the mafia back in the day," says Adam 
Meyers, Crowdstrike's vice president of intelligence. "Once you're in an organization and are initiated, then you have a new name that's assigned to you. They've 
got their own music, their own language even. And there are pictures on social media where they're flaunting what they're doing. The whole idea is why invest hundreds 
of thousands of dollars to build your own malware when you can just convince someone to do something stupid?"Yahoo Boys
Young Nigerian scammers have often been called "Yahoo Boys," because many of their hustles used to target users on Yahoo services. And they've embraced this identity. 
In the rap song "Yahooze"-which has more than 3 million views on YouTube-Nigerian singer Olu Maintain glamorizes the lifestyle of email scammers.Yahoo Boys
Young Nigerian scammers have often been called "Yahoo Boys," because many of their hustles used to target users on Yahoo services. And they've embraced this 
identity. In the rap song "Yahooze"-which has more than 3 million views on YouTube-Nigerian singer Olu Maintain glamorizes the lifestyle of email scammers.
'They spend months sifting through inboxes. They're quiet and methodical.'Advanced Nigerian groups have lately increased the amounts they make off with in each attack 
by targeting not 